Natural Language Processing 
- Types of Natural Language Processing. 
- Classical vs Deep Learning Models. 
- Bag-of-words model. 

Different Types of Natural Language Processing. 
Natural Language Processing => any algo that has to do with processing natural language into machine 
terms. 
Deep Learning => Neural network models that has to do with natural language processing. 

Examples of nlp 
chatbots(if/else rules)
Audio frequency component analysis(speech recognition) 
Bag of words model (Classification) 
CNN for text recognition(classification) 


- Using the bag of words model 
Bag of words model is a way of extracting features from text for use in modelling. 
is a representation of text that describes the occurence of words within a document 
two things 
- vocabulary of known words.  
- measure of the presence of known words. 

bag of words because any information about the order or structure of words in the document is 
discarded. The model is only concerned with whether known words occur in the document and not 
where in the document. 


- Collect data 
- design a vocabulary
- create document vector 
train model on training data, all ordering of the words is normally discarded and get a consistent 
way of extracting features from any document. 
New documents, that overlap with the vocabulary of known words, but may contain words outside 
of the vocabulary can still be encoded, where only the occurence of known words are scored and 
unknown words are ignored. 
- add document vector to training data and let it predict 
As the vocabulary size increases, so does the vector representation of the document 
Imagine a large corpus, thousands of books, vector might be thousands or millions of positions 
Each document might contain very few of the known words in the vocabulary, this results in a 
vector with lots of zeros scores, sparse vectors require more memory and computational 
resources when modelling. 
Text cleaning techniques can be used or create a vocabulary of grouped words, 
this allows the bag of words to capture a bit more meanung 

Bigram Model => creating a vocabulary of two worded pairs 
ie "it was", "was the", "the best" 

once the vocabulary has been chosen, the occurence of words needs to be scored. 
scoring methods => counts(number of times each word appears in a document) 
frequencies=> calculate frequency to which each word appears in a document out of all the 
words in the document. 

limitations => vocabulary(carefully designed), sparsity(makes it harder to model 
for computational reasons and information reasons), Meaning(discarding word order ignores 
the context, context and meanings offer a lot to the model). 

or use a neural network 
feed all the vector data into an input layer and go through as many hidden layers as i want and get 
an output layer.(train the model)
feed in the data vector and get an answer 

so either a normal bag of words model(logistic regression) or dnlp(deep learning bag of words model) 

Bag of words has limitations and issues 
Response is just yes or no(can't build a chatbot w bag of words model) 